## Books I read in 2018
Total 4 books. 2018 marks my beginning of book reading journey.

---

### Lewis Hamilton: My Story

_Racing, Read in 2018_

The story of acquiring this book worths mentioning. I was on a vacation in UK with my girlfriend. We visited Silverstone where I purchased a ticket to drive a couple of laps on Ferrari F430. We also did Morgan Motor's factory tour on the same trip, and of course many other attractions. On the very end of our trips, we had free time in London, I supposed, and we went shopping. Something made me visited a secondhand shop. As I was in a motorsport mood, I sought for any books that fit the theme. I picked two books and this is one of the two.

Previously, I thought Lewis made F1 so boring because he keeps winning all the time, and I wondered why some fans like him so much. After finishing this book, it totally changes my view about him. I don't remember anything particular about this books that renders his life too well but it's his story that is meaningful in itself.

Back to 2020 when he won 7th F1 driver championship, I really admired his message - ""For all the kids out there who dream the impossible you can do it too, man."" Understanding who he is, I think it's very sensational and inspirational.

---

### Prepare to Win, Carroll Smith

_Racing, Read in 2018_

I can't remember much about it. I think it reiterate most of the content in _Tune to Win_ and more explanation on the preparation side. Personally, I prefer _Tune to Win_.

---

### The Technique of Motor Racing, Piero Taruffi

_Racing, Read in 2018_

With the same source of suggestion - Peter Windsor - and probably on the same youtube clip (I am not very sure). He mentioned about this book as a classic book on driving technique. Prior to reading this book, I only knew slow-in-fast-out as the only driving technique (when I drive on racing simulator).

Although this is not the best book about driving technique (to make you faster nowadays) but I enjoy travelling the time and learn one of the original racing lesson from mid 19'. I had this book secondhanded shipped from Amazon US. There's a note written on the blank page. It seems like the book was given by someone to someone who is entusiastic about racings. I am happy to have read this book.

---

### Tune to Win, Carroll Smith

_Racing, Read in 2018_

This is my first book about racing cars. I have long been interested in cars and racings since I was very young but I was very limited in knowledge and access to the information - noone around me as a kid is enthusiastic about racings, I barely understand English. I could only blame myself of not striving enough about racings.

In 2018, I was working in Singapore. I told myself to buy an F1 ticket to watch it for once and see whether I like it. I must say experience at the race track wasn't great (live TV is better) but then I exposed to the depth of motorsports and it recalls my childhood interests about racing. Since then, I started watching a lot of youtube clips about racing car mechanics, F1 history, everything I can find about cars. Then, I remembered (if only I remembered correctly), Peter Windsor, a motorsport journalist, mentioned in one of this commentary video about this book - Tune to Win.

I quickly downloaded the book and finished it in a week or two. This book is my entry ticket to the knowledge of car racings. It explains car physics in very comprehensible ways, of course not that easy to understand because car dynamics is a complex topic. The book has coverage enough to give an overview on how racing car works. I want to recommend this book to anyone who is interested in cars and wanted to know more how can one make a car faster than others.

---
